We have defined our users into three groups and created different paths to navigate our DCC-EX system and this website. Don't worry, the paths are integrated and you can switch a turnout at any point and take another path. See below if you most identify with being a "Operator", a "Tinkerer" or an "Engineer".

Operator (hat logo?)- An operator, for the most part, just wants to enjoy running trains. You could be someone new to the hobby or picking it up after a long absence. Or, you could be someone coming from running DC and looking to switch over to DCC. This is also the perfect place for someone who just wants something that works to have a holiday set or to learn with a child. We provide an "out of the box" working solution that gives you a Command Station and a Controller and you are up and running in just a few minutes. In short, an Operator wants to drive trains and doesn't want to have to deal with the hardware or software involved. You don't want to deal with jumpers, cutting traces, soldering, or changing uploading software if you don't have to. This path will keep things simple.

(Insert a note about JMRI JMRI. Don't stop here even if you don't think you are a Tinkerer. JMRI may be the next step in controlling your locomotive and operating your switches.Click HERE to learn about JMRI)

Tinkerer (gear logo?)- A Tinkerer likes the joy of building things themselves. They may not get into the details of software or electronics, but they know how to use a soldering iron and can follow instructions to to place jumper wires on pins. They don't have a problem opening something like the Arduino IDE to change settings in the program files and uploading it back to their Command Station. There are some more options open to a Tinkerer like using different motor controllers or getting into more detailed control of turnouts, sensors and other accessories. Your layout may still include our standard Control Station kit, but many of you will build your own Control Station using an Arduino board and a Motor Shield. This path will provide more options over the Operator path and cover things like using different motor controller boards and connecting to JMRI software for full control of your model railroad.

Engineer (brain logo?)- An Engineer may have a desire to dig a little deeper into how things work. They can understand the basics of programming and can look at our source code to at least make simple changes. They may know how to use GitHub and can help with offering help to the project. They are not averse to experimenting with things like using a different motor board and following a schematic or instructions to solder a transistor or two to make something work. These are the people whose layout looks like a telephone switching station when you look under their benchwork. This path will offer more technical information and cover more in deptch topics like accessoy control and customizing the system for you.

Basic, Beginner, Starter, Operator, User

Tinkerer, Advanced, Builder

Expert, Developer, Engineer, Wizard

Paths: Basic/Starter, Advanced, Wizard